All-Face Chapel was the scene of some services, but I do not recall that there was a great deal of church activity, at least I didn't participate in it, that on the weekends, because there was nothing to do here, that many people, most of the people, if they had transportation, left.
And I think if you would check of Aggies that graduated in the, let's say from 60 to 75, that 15-year era, and it's going to be 95% will be male because of going co-ed in there, there will be some female.
But those that married during that period of time,
Probably married a girl from Sam Houston or Texas Women's University, which is now called something else.
What was our sister school back then?
Because there really wasn't much to do around here.
I mean, it was, you might be dead for a week before you realized you were dead.
It was so boring.
Was Religious Emphasis Week still going when you were an undergraduate?
Yes.
Do you remember, can you describe it?
I'm really not in a position to give any information on that.
I do recall something about A&M that when I was a freshman, in our outfit, we had two people who were Jewish.
And probably the fact, if you would couple this, the story I'm fixing to tell, with the story about Bernice Evans and integration, kind of shows in my mind that the
I don't want to call us, describe us as being poverty students, but the socio-economic wide rush of the student body then, they were all pretty much all the same.
And whether you were a Jew, a Mormon, a Catholic, that there was very wide tolerance or very little prejudice.
And that...
You know, I would suspect, I have no way of knowing because I haven't been on the campus much in the last few years, but probably there is a greater level of intolerance of someone else's faith, political views, this, that, or the other now, than there ever was back then.
Because the fact was that this guy that was one of the two that was Jewish, and they roomed together once a week in the mess hall, the prayer before the meal was Jewish.
And did that cause any?
Zero.
There was no ripple over it.
That was as acceptable at that point.
In the olden days, before your time, among the nicknames, some of the Jewish students were nicknamed Jew Boy.
It wasn't a put-down at all.
Did they have a nickname?
Not that I knew.
They were seniors when I was freshman, and believe me, that
that I would not be in a position to know and far, far, far removed from being in a position to use that.
All right.
On this matter of diversity, describe in general, as you recall it, the student body and its diversity, both economic and ancestry and attitude.
The attitude is the easiest to describe because it was a great oneness, a great sameness, a great equality among it.
That there was a person here that I had known when I was in high school.
He was from Mexico and came from a very wealthy family.
And because he was a Mexican citizen and he was a junior or a senior when I got here as a freshman,
But that I could visit with him and that if someone in the Corps, and I was a freshman, if you were a sophomore, junior, or senior, and I was visiting with Santiago, and I said, howdy, Mr. Monroe, you were compelled to come over and introduce yourself to whom I was with because I knew you.
Much like in the mess hall, if you were the senior and I was a freshman, you could not have seconds of a dish until I had first.
And no matter how little there was in the bowl, you only took one eighth of it as a senior.
And if I was the final freshman, there was one eighth in the bowl when it got to me.
So the attitude was there was a great equality because the guy was Mexican, Spanish descent, dark olive skinned, had no more bearing,
on it and that I guess it was a great revelation later in life to find out that some people didn't like each other.
You'd ask about the attitudes.
You also ask about a couple other things.
Economics.
Everybody was poor.
Everybody did the same thing.
If there was a person here who came from a money background, I never knew it.
If there was a person here that came from an impoverished background, I never knew it.
That everybody here was taken at face value.
If you were smart, that was good.
If you made good grades.
If you were athletic, that was something and you got good grades.
I worked on the radio.
Lots of people knew me because I was on the radio five, six, seven days a week here when there were two radio stations in town.
And that... WTAW and... And it was then KORAAM at 1240.
It is now KTAM.
But that those were the only two radio stations here in the market in the 60s.
It was before anything on the campus, no radio, no TV.
We were, I mean, you will remember an answer in the affirmative if you were asked, was this pretty much living in Desolation Row?
The answer is yes.
Major student organizations other than the Corps, what were they?
Singing cadets, band, what else?
Well, of course, the band was part of the Corps.
And what did you all think, you non-band members, what did you all think of the band?
We thought they were all crazy as hell.
That you had a certain admiration from the band, but I had no opinion of the band because the band was housed over in the area where they ate at Duncan Dining Hall.
I lived my freshman year over in the area next to University Drive, so I ate at Sebesa Dining Hall.
had little to no contact with them, and that you might have some classes with them.
But the classes, again, were all business.
A&M has never been known as a school with a great sense of humor.
What sense of humor it has, it's developed since I graduated.
Singing cadets.
Bob Boone was the director then, director for many, many, many years.
Other than things that they did at the MSC, at events there, I had little to no contact with them.
The way we sang some of the standard songs and some of the ways that
Bob Boone's singing cadets sang them were not very close and so that their presentations really had very little personal appeal to me.
Among the student positions of authority and or leadership other than corps commander
What were the most sought-after positions?
President of the Student Center.
I've mentioned James Ray that was the president in 1963.
A vet student named Howard Head, Dr. Howard Head, who practices equines, was there in 64.
Terry Odson, who I understand became an orthopedic surgeon, was the president in 65, and the man
The young man that was elected to head it the year after I left, graduated, was Johnny Rogers whom I don't have any contact with him, don't have any contact with any of them actually at this point.
But it was a very prestigious position.
I don't think that it was an elected position.
It was a position that you interviewed for and was selected by a panel.
What about student body president?
in those days it was it was pre-decided that the corps of cadets decided uh some of the leaders of the corps of cadets decided that they would you know who it was going to be if they decided it was going to be joe blow from kokomo then everyone you know information was said now before you come back here today you go over and vote for joe blow and generally your elections were 98 percent to two percent if they were contested at all uh
Did it matter much who the student?
I can't tell you one of them.
I can tell you four successive MSC council presidents.
Yes.
Senior class president, was that?
I'm clueless about who that was.
Were you aware of any secret fraternities in the student body when you were here?
There was a group, I think,
think of people who thought they were rangers or ranger wannabes before rudders rangers were organized and that they would go out and haze each other do the things that navy seals do now but that when and i think probably my rationalization would be that rudders rangers was formed to legitimize and legalize what they were already doing de facto
The freshman drill team, when you were asking about organizations, if you were on that, despite all the bad publicity from years, recent years, that in fact, and all of that did occur back then.
I mean, you know, let's be candid about it that, yes, I've been physically, mentally, and verbally hazed in my life as a student at A&M, so what?
To my knowledge, there were none, others, and understanding that I was with a lot of groups.
I was in the Corps all four years.
I worked in the student center, I was in the community, was on the radio, did publicity for the MSC, covered a lot of ground, but I wasn't zeroed in on any one particular group.
and probably was on the peripheral of dozens.
What about Yale leaders?
Well, of course, two stand out in my mind.
One was Tom Nelson that was a year ahead of us, because when I was here they formed the Marine Unit, which was over in the old area.
I pretty much went anywhere I wanted to on the campus there when I got to be a junior and senior and had a public identity.
And there was, of course, Ted Hopgood that I think was one of the Yale leaders.
Was being a Yale leader, was that important in student prestige?
Not in my world.
Now, I think it was prestigious and everybody else that will
offer their thoughts on it will tell you it is prestigious.
But again, I lived in a world that wasn't totally on the campus, that I had lots of different things that I did.
A&M was a part of it, and a major part of it, but it was not the exclusive.
Describe during your undergraduate days midnight Yale practice.
Somebody bought a lot of beer.
Nearly everybody drank some of it.
And then we went to Yale practice and hollered and hooped and hooted around, and they told gross stories.
And we lost a lot of football games, so it was probably counterproductive.
Were there many dates at Yale practice then?
I didn't have a lot of dates.
And that because there were not a lot of places for girls to stay then, and let's think back to the 60s now,
If there were a student here today that probably mom and dad at home somewhere, if their daughter from SMU, Sam Houston called and said, I'm going over to College Station, I'm staying in a hotel room tonight, it's Friday night, I'm going to go to midnight Yale practice and go into the football game tomorrow, mom and dad would not think a whole lot about it.
Back then, mom and dad would have thought a whole bunch about it.
There were not many places for young people to stay.
There were people in the community that would let
young ladies that were coming for the weekend stay.
In fact, my parents, because they were schoolteachers, were both teaching in Bryan at that time, and that I had a lot of friends who were my friends because my parents had a spare bedroom.
Much like after all these years, not as frequent as it used to be, but I would still get calls for people that wanted a ticket to something.
Describe, during your undergraduate degrees, describe going to a home football game.
Well, of course, you had the march in.
You sat in a place where you could not see the game.
that the idea was when you went to a football game, as I perceived it back then, was not to see a football game, but to yell at the command of the Yale leaders that this would inspire the team.
And again, let me point out something I said earlier.
In four years here, four football seasons here, we won 10 games because we won four games my freshman year.
So that means in the next three years, we won six games.
Football games,
were not a big deal back then because it was going to be on an average eight out of ten times a negative experience.
I don't think A&M went to a bowl, well I know A&M didn't go to a bowl game the time that I was here.
Don't think we ever beat the University of Texas.
Don't recall who we did beat.
I think maybe one time we beat Texas Tech on a running back kickoff or something.
No, the Texas Special, did we win?
I don't think we won that ball game, but it was in 1966.
Yeah, oh, no, that's right, that's right, yeah.
You know, I know that dude, McLean, who didn't, who chose not to graduate because apparently had a year of eligibility and came back and caught it, caught the ball and ran that 95, 94, 92 yards, whatever it was.
Let me add an item so it'll be preserved here.
Dude McLean was in my Southern History class.
And when I got his term paper in that advanced class, it was extremely lengthy.
It was superbly typed.
Footnotes, bibliography, everything splendid.
Except no paragraph.
Oh, and there were...
The grammar, the word choice was superb.
It was much better written than any of his essay answers had been.
And then when I read it, I found that no paragraph in that term paper had anything to do with any of the other paragraphs.
But each of them was footnoted and so forth.
I then called him in and handed him the paper and I said, help me understand this.
And he grinned and he said, oh, as you can see, I didn't really write that paper.
I went over to the library and picked up a big armload of books and took them over and told the typist to type.
I marked various pages and told her to take the first paragraph out of every one of those pages
copy it exactly, give it a footnote, because I was thinking that maybe you really didn't read these term papers, that you would just flip the pages and see how long my paper was.
And he grinned, and I said, do you realize I've got to give you a failing grade on this, a zero?
And he said, no, I'm not surprised.
I was just hoping that you wouldn't grade it.
And there was no ill will on his part, and he didn't attempt to
persuade me because he was on the football team that he knew he deserved anything special.
Let's see.
Did you buy senior boots?
Yes.
Any story related to that and what boots meant to you and so forth?
My boots meant to me that I was going to be in terrible pain that day.
That senior boots back then probably cost close to $100.
I understand now they're $400 or $500.
and they were passed down, you found somebody that was your size and you could go to the academic building then and they had places where you could take three by five cards and you could write for sale such and such or want to buy such and such.
And that was how senior boots was kind of the boot exchange place.
And I bought a pair of boots and I can't recall whether they were too narrow or what, but they were very uncomfortable.
And I probably wore the boots two times other than when you were absolutely, positively required to wear them.
That understanding all this, that again being in the 90th Division and being in the ROTC at Texas A&M,
working on the radio, going to school, having some other jobs, that I was underwhelmed by a lot of the outward signs or things that people did at A&M.
I know it won't show up on the tape or in a transcript, but I have small hands, as you can see, that after I got the senior ring, then all of a sudden the senior ring would make indentations.
Wearing it on my ring finger would leave indentations
on my little finger and my middle finger.
And I never wore my senior ring.
More than just enough to meet the requirements of everybody knew that I had one.
And that my senior ring today is probably in as close to pristine condition as anybody from the class of 65 would have one.
and the boots didn't fit, that because I did a lot of things that frequently, I can't recall that I had permission, I'm not sure that I did or didn't, but that I wore civilian clothes.
As a member of the Corps of Cadets, we'd go to class in civilian clothes, and that being a day student, that I was the, I think the executive officer of my day company, and that when I was on campus,
quite often that I went to lunch and marched with corps staff as the only first lieutenant.
Everybody else was a major lieutenant colonel.
You know, everybody else had a diamond on and I had a button, a circle.
But that I would go in and eat there.
And I'm sure if the university reads this, they'll send me a bill.
But that I eat on campus quite frequently with the corps cadet just by marching with corps staff or if I had a friend in some outfit, I might be the only ROT Army
ROTC person marching with an Air Force unit and go in and eat.
But I didn't obey all the rules all the time.
Now, let's see.
You were not commissioned?
No.
Back in those days, when I enlisted, you had an eight-year commitment.
But the time you were in school,
counted against that.
But I mean, you were not commissioned as a part of the Corps Commission.
Clarify that for me.
I did not go, when I graduated, I did not graduate with a commission.
That's what I was meaning.
Okay.
But I was an enlisted man and that it started with an eight-year commitment while you were going to school.
I was doing that because I knew that if you went in as a second lieutenant,
With four years' experience, you made this much more money than you did as a second lieutenant with no years of experience, no experience.
And so there were three of us that had done that, a guy named Frank Muller, a guy named Jerome Retrick, because all three of us were in this same unit with the 90th Division.
All three of us aspired to be career military people at one time or another.
I think Frank got out as a captain, and Jerome may have made majors.
But nobody, to my knowledge, finished, did a 20-year career.
Did you go through commissioning exercises as a participant at all?
No.
Okay.
All right, what about commencement?
Where was commencement and what was that like?
Well, I don't know.
Because in the great scheme of things, as I was going through,
the ROTC program, and I cannot remember who my advisor was, but somewhere in there that it missed a step.
And I was three hours short of being able to graduate in whatever graduation was in 1965 and had to do three hours more of work.
So I did not graduate in the spring, but was a summer graduate, which that graduation was held in August.
But I had already done the classwork.
In fact, I think, and I can't even recall what the course was, but I had to take, I needed three more hours that somebody had missed something.
And I went in and said, I need to do this.
That's all I need to graduate.
And some person of great benevolence said, if you'll do this, this, and this, you're free to go.
And that by July of 1965, I was living in Madrid, Spain, working for an international company.
So you didn't come back for commencement?
No.
Let's see.
What were some of the off-campus events
in anywhere in the world that you remember that struck you as being serious?
Oh, none then.
Well, the assassination of it.
Oh, all right.
Oh, anything back during the 60s.
Yeah.
Where did you hear it?
Where did you hear the news and what did you think about it?
I was in the student center because they had TVs in the student center.
It was really the only place on campus and they only had two or three.
that you could get any kind of outside world information.
The battalion certainly didn't print it.
Working at the local radio stations, I did have access to teletypes and network news for ABC during part of the time when I worked for the old KORA.
I recall one of the courses that I took as a sophomore
that was a government class.
I can't remember the professor, but he gave a quiz each week on current events because he recognized the importance of knowing what was going on.
Blue Book Benton?
No, I've had him a couple of times, but this was a relatively young guy and I don't think he's had a long career at A&M.
But I took the course and that he had made some
wager, bet, challenge to the class saying if you can answer these 10 questions about current events you don't have to do any papers or you don't have to do any take the final or something and I said I'll take the challenge and he asked me 10 questions and I answered them all or six questions or three questions but I knew about current events because back then in broadcasting
We had for news what you called rip and read.
You went out one minute before the newscast.
You ripped it off the teletype.
You walked in there and you read it.
And if there were typos in it, you fabricated the news.
But that I, you know, I've been a news junkie since high school.
And I made an A in that course.
And it was at 9 o'clock, Monday, Wednesdays, Fridays.
Remember that?
Second floor, Nagel Hall.
But back to the Kennedy assassination.
Everybody was in shock that we just kind of wandered aimlessly around the campus.
People did not speak, did not say howdy to each other.
No one wore their hats.
It was a time that young people did not know how to grieve.
Most of us at that point in our life had not been touched by death.
And this was the commander in chief.
Dumbfounded, struck dumb.
I can't think of adjectives that would adequately describe.
We didn't know what to do.
All right.
Now, I personally was struck, sadly also, that it had happened in my state.
I was embarrassed.
I didn't have those feelings.
It could have happened in St.
Louis.
It could have happened in Seattle.
That the where it happened meant nothing.
That it had happened meant everything.
All right, as you look back on those years, who were some people that you realized touched your life, some faculty, staff, advisors?
Wayne Stark, of course, was probably the single most influential person during my college years on my life because I had such a diversity of things that I did.
one of the people that I worked for in broadcasting had a great impact.
In fact, it's why I stayed in broadcasting because of the quality of this man as a human being, as a Christian.
He was not a very good broadcaster, but he was a wonderful human being.
In truth, the academic portion of it
I did it out of it's an obligation of things you do, much like I shave each morning and comb my hair and brush my teeth.
The extracurricular activities was where I discovered about the Aggies.
If you know an Aggie, and for an example, that when I went to Madrid, I was in a four-man department
a Spanish national.
They brought over a man from England, and the head of the unit was an Aggie class of 48 named Tom Knox.
Probably only saw him five times, but that I always knew that he was there if something came up.
And I learned because of Wayne Stark, who introduced to people that
You know, it's not necessary that you know the king, but if you know someone who knows the king, how important that is and how applicable that is as a life, an adult life, a real life afterwards.
How did you get that job?
Did A&M have an effect on your getting that job?
Let's don't go in that direction.
Let's go back and I'd like to talk some more about student life.
Oh, oh, oh, splendid.
Back then, one of the things that you could do as a student was that you could take as little or as much responsibility as you wanted to.
And a lot of people used the Corps of Cadets as a vehicle
for going up there, and I'd like to use Ted Hopgood as an example because Ted was an outstanding student then, not in terms of academics, they have no idea where he was academically, but that he was a leader of men then.
And he devoted his into the Marines and to being a leader in the Corps of Cadets.